>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
why would you use observable to promise?
So one, diving into observables
can be super, super,
super, super exclamation
point intimidating.
That there is a lot going on and
it actually requires a mental
shift a bit on how you think about the
world and how they do works as a whole.
I'm kind of actually putting this lightly,
it really actually took me months
to fully appreciate observables.
And so they can be intimidating
especially coming from 1.x.
Sometimes people find it easier
to just convert it into a promise
to something that they are familiar with.
And from there you treat
it just like a promise, and
so if somebody were dipping their
toes into an Angular 2 application.
And they did this for
the sake of getting something up and
running, I would not begrudge them.
As well as I think in terms
of making an HTTP call.
Because there is only ever a single
response, it's not like a websocket,
that most people if HTTP is the context
in which they're learning observables,.
I think it's a really poor place to
really flex your muscles on observables,
because it's ever only
returning a single value.
And so
I believe it was Chris had a comment,
of like why would I use
an observable versus a promise.
Because it seems like a promise
would do the same thing,
especially for an HTTP call,
to that I agree.
You do have the ability to stack your
transformation operators as well as
recover from errors more elegantly
when you're using the observable.
So you have more control over the stream
of data, as opposed to an observable
that once it resolves, that's it,
game over, that's as far as you go.
And so I can actually I'll talk
about that in a bit more, but
as a whole, when you're making
the HTTP call, really a promise and
observable at face value
are pretty close together.
But I recommend you must use toPromise,
but
it's actually quite easy to
just use an observable and
let's see what this looks like.
So here,
http.get we're mapping the response and
over turning a promise.
So this is a classic,
as if we were doing Angular 1.x.
So map toPromise, and just before
that we are mapping the response.
And then in our component,
we are calling load items then .then
to resolve and handle that promise.
So if anybody's done one x,
this is pretty much par for the course,
this is modus operandi.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
let's look at observable.subscribe.
So skipping my show notes real quick,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: loadItems().
In this case, we're not having to convert
it to a promise, we're just mapping it.
So map, done.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And then here,
instead of .then, it's .subscribe.
So if you even put these on a scale,
and you weighed them by line.
I think even just using
observable.subscribe,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: You
have an extra line in there to
actually return it to a promise, but
then how you handle it,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: .then oop,
get back here or .subscribe,
and they're almost
identical at this point.
So at which point, unless there is
a good reason to use two promise,
actually here's an example,
or here is one case.
That if you have an existing,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Maybe
service that consumes a service.
So if you have something like interop,
where you are converting kind of this back
end service and the consuming service.
So let's say you have a service
that is completely responsible for
communicating to the server.
Which is then like you have another
intermediary service on top of that.
Then if that intermediary service,
for some reason expects promises
then it may make sense to go ahead and
convert that into a promise.
So you don't have to actually change or
effect downstream dependencies.
But I had to think a little bit
about that specific case as a whole,
I would just say bite the bullet and
run with .subscribe.
Cuz on the surface,
it acts just like a promise and
then it does 50 bazillion
other things in the process.
All right, so headers,
let's talk about these real quick.
We can have an optional parameter, and
that is a RequestOptions object.
And the RequestOptions object
has a headers property
which is a Headers object.
So RequestOptions, headers, and
then we use the Headers object to set
additional parameters that your server
cares about, for instance Content-Type.
Now let me just switch these around here.
So this is a very verbose
way of doing this.
I'm creating headers,
I'd like a Headers object.
And then I'm creating
a RequestOptions object and
then passing in the Headers
object that I just created.
And then in my post and I'm passing
that in as that optional perimeter.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: In this case, because
really RequestOptions is just an object.
I have went ahead and
just kind of shorthand,
I'm just creating an object
with a Headers property on it.
And creating a new Header's object and
I'm just passing that in.
So again these are things that
people get religious about.
I'm lazy and this is I don't think
any clear advantage from doing one to
the other that I can think of.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So what we're doing,
creating essentially an object that serves
as a RequestOptions object and we're
passing it in as an optional parameter.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
the RequestOptions,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Version.
So error handling.
Now children,
we should always handle errors.
Okay, with that said, you'll notice in my
code, I'm actually not really doing that.
So for demo code purposes, but
if anybody's life or money or
livelihood depends on it,
we should always handle errors.
So this is what this looks like,
we use Observable.catch to process
the error at the service level.
And Observable.throw to essentially
force that error further up the stream.
Then we can use the error
handler in subscribe,
and the subscribe method to respond
to that error at the component level.
So let me back up a couple of slides.
In your subscribe block, this actually
handles or takes three methods,
onNext, onError and onComplete.
So our onNext is when some data is
emitted, this will get call and
continue to be called,
unlike a promise on air.
So if something goes wrong,
it gets called or onComplete, so
when the stream is just done,
then this gets called as well.
So in promise terms,
this is next catch and finally.
So kind of a similar thing,
so going back here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We're
using .map again, but
in this case we're catching the error.
So if something happens,
we want to capture it.
Then using Observable.throw,
we are then sending an error
back up the stream.
So this will get returned in lieu of, or
as the value for this observable.
And then within our,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Hold on.
Yes, then within our subscribe block, what
we have here is as the error handler or
the second parameter,
we're calling handleError.
And so what this could also look like,
cuz I saw this for a second and
I did a double take.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Is
we're kind of handling this
inline,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: But
this could also also be for instance,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: An old function
here like,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke:
this.doSomethingDrastic.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So essentially
you just stack these methods up.
So on next, onError and onComplete.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so
if we had an onComplete handler,
what that would look like is.
And keynote is an amazing IDE by the way.
It's so good, I love it.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Handle complete.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Like this.